# Lecture Homework: Practice exercises due 4-15-19 before class.

#### For Loops

If you ls the the directory ~/classdata/Homework_data/data-shell/molecules directory, you get the following output:

```
cubane.pdb  ethane.pdb  methane.pdb  octane.pdb  pentane.pdb  propane.pdb
```

1. __What__ is the output of the following code?
```
$ for datafile in *.pdb
> do
>    ls *.pdb
> done
```


2. __What__ is the output of the following code?
```
$ for datafile in *.pdb
> do
>	ls $datafile
> done
```


3. __Why__ do these two loops give different outputs?


4. __What__ is output of running the following loop in the data-shell/molecules directory?
```
$ for filename in c*
> do
>    ls $filename
> done
```
__a.__ No files are listed.
__b.__  All files are listed.
__c.__  Only cubane.pdb, octane.pdb and pentane.pdb are listed.
__d.__  Only cubane.pdb is listed.

5. __How__ would the output differ from using this command instead?
```
$ for filename in *c*
> do
>    ls $filename
> done
```
__a.__ The same files would be listed.
__b.__ All the files are listed this time.
__c.__ No files are listed this time.
__d.__ The files cubane.pdb and octane.pdb will be listed.
__e.__ Only the file octane.pdb will be listed.

6. In the data-shell/molecules directory, __what__ is the effect of this loop?
```
for alkanes in *.pdb
do
    echo $alkanes
    cat $alkanes > alkanes.pdb
done
```
__a.__ Prints cubane.pdb, ethane.pdb, methane.pdb, octane.pdb, pentane.pdb and propane.pdb, and the text from propane.pdb will be saved to a file called alkanes.pdb.
__b.__ Prints cubane.pdb, ethane.pdb, and methane.pdb, and the text from all three files would be concatenated and saved to a file called alkanes.pdb.
__c.__ Prints cubane.pdb, ethane.pdb, methane.pdb, octane.pdb, and pentane.pdb, and the text from propane.pdb will be saved to a file called alkanes.pdb.
__d.__ None of the above.

7. __What__ would be the output of the following loop?

```
for datafile in *.pdb
> do
> cat $datafile >> all.pdb
> done
```

__a.__ All of the text from cubane.pdb, ethane.pdb, methane.pdb, octane.pdb, and pentane.pdb would be concatenated and saved to a file called all.pdb.
__b.__ The text from ethane.pdb will be saved to a file called all.pdb.
__c.__ All of the text from cubane.pdb, ethane.pdb, methane.pdb, octane.pdb, pentane.pdb and propane.pdb would be concatenated and saved to a file called all.pdb.
__d.__ All of the text from cubane.pdb, ethane.pdb, methane.pdb, octane.pdb, pentane.pdb and propane.pdb would be printed to the screen and saved to a file called all.pdb.

---

#### until while and range loop

1. Write an script that contains an until loop that prints a counter from 5 until the counter is greater than 8. Call this script until_8.sh

2. Write an script that contains an while loop that prints a counter while the counter is not greater than 8. Start the counter at 5.  Call this script while_8.sh

3. Write an script that contains an range loop that prints a range of numbers from 5 to 8. Call this script range_8.sh

---
#### If then else loop

1. Write and comment a script that takes the for loop that you used in class to print the colors of the rainbow (as is) and if the color is equal to blue print sky, for every other color print fire.  Save this script as color.sh . The output should be as follows:
```
red
fire
orange
fire
yellow
fire
green
fire
blue
sky
indigo
fire
violet
fire
```
